Add managed packages & remote generation documentation (#220)
bufbuild/docs.buf.build: docs/bsr/hosted-plugins/remote-generation.mdx

---

> id: remote-generation

Reviewer: I don't understand remote generation being under hosted plugins, I thought we were deprecating the term "remote generation" entirely?

title: Remote generation
---

> We highly recommend completing [the tour](../../tour/generate-go-code.md) to get an
> overview of `buf generate` with remote generation.

> The Buf Schema Registry is the perfect place for personal projects, tiny

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Buf Schema Registry is the perfect tool for personal projects, tiny
```

startups, and giant mega-corporations alike. It provides an API marketplace to
increase the discoverability of your service, provide documentation to potential
consumers and expose client libraries to ensure a perfect connection every time.

**Remote generation** makes it possible to generate source code using hosted
plugins in an isolated environment on the BSR. By isolating code generation
from its environment, you eliminate an entire class of problems caused by subtle

> differences across specific compiler versions and custom Protobuf plugins.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
differences between specific compiler versions and custom protoc plugins.
```

Reviewer 2: this is a nitpick and I could be wrong

With remote code generation, plugins are executed on the BSR itself—not on your

> laptop, not in a CI/CD environment, only remotely on the BSR.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
local machine, not in a CI/CD environment, only remotely on the BSR.
```

organization are able to achieve stable and reproducible code generation, while
enjoying a simplified developer experience. The Buf team has published a set of
[official plugins](#official-plugins) for you to use, starting with all the
built-in `protoc` Protobuf plugins and popular ones such as gRPC plugins.

## Define a module

To get started, create a [module](../overview.mdx#modules) by adding a
[`buf.yaml`](../../configuration/v1/buf-yaml.md) file to the root of the directory
that contains your Protobuf definitions. You can create the default `buf.yaml`
file with this command:

```terminal
$ buf mod init
```

```yaml title="buf.yaml"
version: v1
breaking:
  use:
    - FILE
lint:
  use:
    - DEFAULT
```

## Create a `buf.gen.yaml`

Now that you have an [input](../../reference/inputs.md) to generate code for, we
need to define a `buf.gen.yaml` and specify what `protoc` plugins you want to
use. For example, We'll use the
[buf.build/demolab/theweather](https://buf.build/demolab/theweather) module
hosted on the BSR as the input source. You can also use local Protobuf files,
but for this example we'll use a hosted module to illustrate plugin execution.

> A hosted plugin can have a version specified, as is done below, or it can be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any version of a hosted plugin can be specified, as is done below, or it can be
```
